+++
date = '2026-05-11T19:40:58+05:30'
draft = false
title = 'Thoughts on Coding Against the Odds'
+++
### **Reflections**
The presentation “Coding against the odds” was useful and quite interesting. I liked how the group started with quick definitions of important terms such as self efficacy, gender stereotypes, patrifocal society, digital divide, geek culture, and verbal persuasion. These definitions helped us understand the presentation much better before coming to the main discussion. I also liked that they spoke about Ada Lovelace, the first computer programmer and Grace Hopper, who developed early programming languages, because it showed that women have played important roles in the field of Computer Science from a very early time and not recently.I also liked that they checked the data and made the pie charts which showed accurate results rather than blindly believing the graphs plotted from the source. The first chart showed that most people grew up with computers at home, while the second chart showed who used computers the most in the family. The part where they explain about women's confidence in computing was also meaningful. This is because it explained how expectations from society and stereotypes can affect women in this field and what makes a less percentage of women to be in this field. My thoughts mostly agree with the ideas of the group. I too believe that gender stereotypes and lack of confidence makes it harder for women to choose this field as a career. I also think that the situation is slowly improving in India since more women are entering this field today. One thing I think the group could have done better is to give real life examples of women working in the Computer Science field in today's generation. I also think that the group could make it more interactive with the class. Overall, I think that the presentation was well organised and was easy to understand.
